OK so we just talked about reference types.
If you did not watch that video definitely go back and check it out because it's really important for
this video.
So we're talking about concert.
We saw a concert early on when we defined variables.
We saw we could use let's let X equals 34.
We can change X at any point.
X is now going to be five more.
We just incremented X and it did change.
If we instead use const to define our variable constant we'll go with concert.
City equals How about Lisbon city is now set to Lisbon.
And if I change it.
City equals London not okay.
You cannot reassign or give a new value to a concert.
So up until this point really the only use case for it has been things like this concert pi equals three
point 1 4 1 5 9 where we know something is not going to change but that's about to change because as
we just saw arrays are reference types which means that the actual array data is not the content that
is stored in the slot in memory for each variable.
Instead it is a reference.
So as long as the reference doesn't change the internals the insides of an array can change even if
you're using const.
So here's an example.
We have an array called my eggs and it's two items long brown and brown those two brown eggs and this
is a representation of what it would look like where the variable my eggs is referencing it's pointing
to some content or to the actual array with all the values in it.
But this pointer is what is not supposed to change.
This has to stay constant what happens over here doesn't matter because the only thing stored in my
eggs is the reference.
So we can change it.
We can now add in to my eggs we can push even though it's const it's not let we use const we can still
change the contents because we're not updating or altering this reference one more time.
I could set my eggs of zero to be green change the first value in there I'm manipulating values I'm
adding in I could empty out the array as long as I don't reassign my eggs to some other array which
is what I did right here I said my eggs equals a new array with blue and pink not allowed I would get
this error assignment to constant variable because we change the reference the arrow used to be pointing
to this array in memory but then I said forget that one my eggs is now a new array and so it's pointing
to this array now it doesn't even get that far because it throws an error but this is visually what
could be happening behind the scenes and you're not allowed to do that with const you can not change
that reference but again you can change anything inside that array as long as you don't sever that one
tie that arrow so we can play around with it as we saw with a variable if we did pi and we tried to
change PI we can't do that pi is now forty five not allowed I can't do pi plus equals one can't do that
but if we're working with an array let's go with foods and it starts with milk that's the only item
in there I can do whatever I want with the foods array with the content in here I could empty it out
I can push onto it so let's push food step push chocolate no problem.
It works because the reference is staying the same foods.
Let's do an unchecked milk chocolate.
How about tortillas up need to make sure I can spell foods.
And there we go.
We've updated foods I could remove everything from their foods that pop three times and we still have
the same reference.
Even though it's completely empty the actual array itself the reference of that arrow is unchanged but
I can not do this.
Food equals a new array definitely cannot do that even though it's already an empty array.
I'm making a new empty array here which means and new Arrow a new place in memory or a new reference
not allowed.
So food is the original empty array and I can again add onto it.
I can do whatever I want now because of this behavior because arrays are reference types constants used
all the time.
When we work with arrays all the time far more often than light unless you have some good reason that
your variable would need to point to different entirely different arrays.
Most of the time you just need a variable for your array and the array might change but you're not going
to just point to some new Array.
It's possible you're not saying that you could only use cons for the rest of your life with arrays but
you'll see the majority of the array variables in the real world and tutorials.
Most of them will be done with const.
So from here on out that's what I'll be doing most of the time unless there's a good reason to use it.
And then when we're working with primitive types things like numbers I'll use const when appropriate
but a lot of the time we need light.
If those values need to change.
All right so that's pretty much it for this video for reference types.
Again we can change the internals of the array.
We just can't point to a new array or to a string out of nowhere or to a Boolean.
It has to be that one reference in memory.